---
title: "Improving the Accuracy of Haplotype phasing"
excerpt: "What the factors that influence the accuracy of haplotype phasing in evolved Drosophila simulans populations?."
collection: research
---
Advances in sequencing technologies have allowed rapid and massive genotyping of Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) providing an opportunity to study the relationship between phenotypic response and the genetic changes in experimental evolution studies. One of the powerful and cost effective methods is whole genome sequencing of pools of individuals (Pool-Seq) where instead of sequencing individuals separately pools of individuals from a population are sequenced together. This method is used in Evolve and Resequence (E&R) studies with the aim to identify targets of selection as a response to a selection regime during experimental evolution. While Pool-Seq is effective in providing highly accurate genome-wide allele frequency estimates provides only limited information about linkage between SNPs. ln reality, SNPs are arranged in sequences which form haplotypes where the order of SNPs in each of the homologue chromosomes contains valuable information on the relationship between variants. To make a full use of SNP information estimating of haplotype phase is important as it can be used for detecting the level of linkage between SNPs and pattern of their inheritance, points of recombination and cis-regulation of gene expression. ln diploid outcrossing species, haplotypes cannot be obtained directly from short read sequencing, but need to be inferred by statistical phasing, arranging the order of polymorphisms in a chromosome. Reliable haplotype phasing requires whole genome sequencing of large number of individuals which are becoming increasingly available thanks to the constant drop sequencing costs.
ln this context, my interests focus on the use of experimental and statistical methods to identify and characterize selected genomic regions in replicated *Drosophila simulans* populations which have been exposed for over 100 generations to a novel temperature regime. We plan to explore and identify the factors which influence the accuracy of haplotype phasing in evolved *Drosophila simulans* populations in order to improve the accuracy of haplotype phase estimation. Based on low-coverage whole genome sequencing of individual flies we will obtain accurate haplotypes of evolved *Drosophila simulans* populations. By combining haplotype data with timeseries Pool-Seq data, we will be able to determine accurately the selected genomic regions.
