---
title: "Measuring the fitness cost of insecticide resistance with Evolve and Resequence: A case study with Ace resistance in Drosophila simulans."
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2019-01-04-popgroup
venue: "PopGroup 52"
date: 2019-01-04
location: "Oxford, UK"
excerpt: "Measuring the fitness cost of insecticide resistance with Evolve and Resequence: A case study with Ace resistance in Drosophila simulans."
---
[See more info here](http://www.genetics.org.uk/events/pop-group/)

Abstract: Natural populations rapidly acquire resistance to insecticides. Frequently, this resistance comes with a considerable cost, which is evident from the presence of susceptible and resistance alleles in natural populations. Because the cost of insecticide resistance is difficult to measure in the field, we used experimental evolution to quantify the cost of insecticide resistance. After &gt;100 generations in an insecticide free environment a highly resistant D. simulans population lost resistance to the insecticides Malation and Propoxur. Whole genome sequencing of pools of individuals (Pool-Seq) uncovered a pronounced selection signature around the Ace locus, a classic resistance gene. Three amino acid replacements (I116V, G265A and F330Y), which confer insecticide resistance, decreased in frequency from 50- 55% to 0-10%. Using time series data, we inferred a selection coefficient of at least 0.07, confirming the high cost of insecticide resistance. Computer simulations confirmed a dominant or codominant model of Ace resistance. Sequencing 34 haplotypes from the ancestral and 24 haplotypes from the evolved flies, we show that all resistance alleles are located on the same haplotype. This haplotype has low levels of sequence variation, confirming strong directional selection for insecticide resistance in natural D. simulans populations. Similar to D. melanogaster, the same haplotype with three resistance alleles is also detected in other populations, suggesting a global spread, rather than independent origin.
